Yes, yes. So before we begin a few quick reminders to ensure a smooth session, please keep your microphones muted unless you are invited to speak or to avoid background noise. So and also please note that this session is being recorded for internal reference and for those those who couldn't join us today or for reference for the later groups. And let me introduce myself myself. I'm Srinath. I'm from Ernst and Young and I'm joined with my manager, Harsha. So for the past few months, we have been supporting RTGs and the Andhra Pradesh government in AP AI Acceleration Project. So we welcome to the welcome you all to the orientation of the hackathon focused on the mapping and forecasting of groundwater levels. So this initiative is going to be a data driven insights to improve the government service delivery and water security for citizens. Today, we have the we have a department team represented by Mr. Srinivas JD and we hope that our RTGS CEO will also join shortly. Today's agenda is we were thinking of starting with the vision statement for the project from CEO RTGS. Once he joined, he will give his insights or his views and later department will take over to explain the problem statement and what exactly they are looking. So since CEOs has not joined, we'll directly invite the department. Yes. Yes. Good morning. Yeah. Good morning to all. So since CEO RTGS has not joined, I would request the department to start with the brief on the use case and what is the current pain points. And like, I mean, what is the solution which they are expecting for that, like, I mean, the participants can take your feedback and come up with the better solution on the final demo presentation. So I would request Srinivas sir, I mean, to give your feedback and like, I mean, to explain what is the current pain points and what are the expected solutions from your end. And later, like, I mean, the participants will come up with some queries that can be answered. And then, like, I mean, in between if Prakash has joined and you also give his feedback and what is his expectation. Thank you. Yes, Srinivas sir. Okay. Good morning, Srinivas and Arshad. Can you introduce our shortlisted participants once? I want to know how many participants are there other than you. I want to know the shortlisted participants in details. How many are participating in this meeting? Sir, may I have a look? Yes. Yes. So. Okay. Sir, we have... We have shortlisted six entries, which are mainly from the companies, startups like Spondum Enterprises, Harrier Technologies, then JSP Private Limited, Hitlach Solutions, and Spacing Technologies. And one from an individual called Badri Vamsi. Any of the six organizations are there in this meeting? Yes, sir. We are here from Spondum. You are from? Spondum Enterprises Private Limited. Okay. Hello, sir. So, I am from JSP Private Limited. Okay. Hello, sir. And we are from Spacing. Okay. Yeah. Hi. I am from Harrier Technologies. Okay. Hi, sir. I am attending on the... We are in the... Okay. First, I will ask you the question. Regarding this project, first of all, this project or use case, what we mentioned is we are in Andhra Pradesh state. It is a highly heterogeneous, geologically heterogeneous area of 1,62,000 square kilometers occupied by different hydrogeological strata, starting from recent alluvium to the ancient Archeans. So, the 14 principal aquifers are there. In that area, very n number of hydrogeological units are there. So, and we are dealing with the groundwater, groundwater availability varies from place to place, depending upon the hydrogeological conditions and rainfall. So, in AP, rainfall varies from 500 millimeters to almost 100 millimeters. And also, extraction pattern varies from place to place. Nearly 40% of the area is the command area, the balance is the non-command area. So, the problem is we are monitoring groundwater levels very closely. Network from 1,800 pieso meters. The information I have already provided, the metadata I have provided to you all. Please mute your phone. Rajendra, K Rajendra, can you please mute? Okay. Okay. So, we are monitoring the groundwater levels regularly on a real-time basis from 1,800 pieso meters distributed in all these 14 hydrogeological aquifers, as well as the all mandals, that means blocks, and 748 microbasins. So, the problem is now we are going for the water conservation activity in a larger scale. So, in Andhra Pradesh, we identified the different areas into the areas with water levels, groundwater level, pre-monsoon groundwater levels, 0 to 3 meters, 3 to 8 meters, and 8 to 20 meters, and areas with the water level more than 20 meters. So, we have identified those areas physically and using our database. And the challenge is we are preparing groundwater conservation action plans for every district. It is a big challenge for the department. That is because we are having 1,800 piso meters, and we are having 18,000 plus villages. So, here the challenge is we have interpolated the data available, piso meter data available with us. So, with that, we got, we observed that more than 10,000 plus villages are under groundwater stress. That is more than 8 meters depth. So, but it is practically, and it is not the correct thing. Why? Because in a village, the groundwater level varies from place to place, even within a village. And within the mandal, that is a block, there will be 10 to 15 villages are there. So, in that, we are having 1 piso meter, and the hydrogeology varies largely in that mandal, in that for 10 villages. So, simply if you interpolate the data points of 1,800, so we are not getting the realistic picture in the villages. Why? Because in the same village, some, for example, in the same village or neighboring villages, the formation is alluvium and or crystallines. Like this, different combinations are there. For example, our piso meter is in alluvium, and one is in sandstone, one is in crystalline rocks. While we were interpolating this data, so it is taking nearest neighbor concept and all, etc. And it is assigning some value to that village. But if we practically, it is not correct, because in alluvial area, water levels are very shallow. And in crystalline rocks, the water levels are very deep. If you interpolate that one, what we are getting is, in alluvial area, we are getting deeper water levels, and in some crystalline areas, we are getting shallow water levels. So, that is a big challenge. That is why I am requesting all of you to do some analytics, develop some analytics. And our objective is to assign a water level point data to every village, to all 18,000 villages, so that we will pick the villages where the water levels are deep, that is more than 20 meters. And we will start working water conservation activity in those villages. So, that is a big challenge. Here, rainfall, surface water, because all of you know that groundwater availability and groundwater recharge is basically dependent on five parameters. The major parameter is rainfall. Second one is applied irrigation, recharge through applied irrigation. Applied irrigation is surface water and groundwater. And third one is recharge through canal seepage. The fourth one is recharge through the tanks and ponds. And fifth and last one is recharge through artificial recharge structure. So, these sources are, availability of sources varies from place to place. And also, rainfall, from rainfall to large water conservation structures varies from place to place. And also, mostly, behavior of the water levels depend on the one first, aquifer. Second one is availability of these all sources, that is rainfall and all. And third one is utilization factor. How in that area, groundwater utilization is taking place. Because in command area, there will be a lot of surface water available, a lot of recharge there, but utilization is very low. So, utilization also you have to take into consideration while arriving or assigning a value to any village. So, this is a total or problem statement. So, finally, we need your intervention. First one is to get to assign a value to a groundwater value to a village based on these parameters using our 1800 piezometer data. That is about from our department requirement. So, if you have any queries, our team will answer your queries. Thank you. Any further clarification required, please ask me. Sir, when it comes to streamlining the level of the, I mean, ground well or anything. So, like, is there any specific numbers like we are supposed to actually focus, let us say for all the villages, the groundwater levels. So, should we just streamline for all the villages in the same level or it's going to be changed for across the system? So, let's say like up to 10 feet, 20 feet, 30 feet, like, are we supposed to do it like that or any specific numbers you have with you? We are monitoring groundwater levels from 1800 piezometer regularly. So, based on the piezometer data, it is evident that our groundwater levels varies from almost ground level to the deepest of 100 meters. So, this is the variation, but we want to know because we are taking, we are going to take up many water conservation activities like check dams, percolation tanks, recharge shafts, etc., etc. So, for that case, we want to know what is the present water level condition. That is, water levels also varies from season to season. So, we want to know the water level condition in a particular village during pre-monsoon and post-monsoon period. So, we need two points, data points, point data for each village, at least one in pre-monsoon and one in post-monsoon. So, we can provide 1800 piezometer data so that we'll plan our water conservation activity in those villages where the groundwater levels are deep. That is our objective. Okay. Right. So, pre-monsoon and post-monsoon and also like according to the height level, I mean level of the ground wells also, right? Yes. Okay. Thanks. Sir, and one more thing is, I guess in the data set actually, we are seeing just aquifers and also GT wells. So, I mean when we are, I mean aquifers file is opening, but when we try to open GT wells actually it is not opening. So, whom do we reach out to? It is a safe file. It is a safe file. You can open in RGS or QGS. Okay. I mean, we are trying to use MapShaper for using this. Okay, we'll try and in case if there's an issue, we'll get back to you. If there's an issue, you can open this file, safe file in QGS or RGS. Okay. So, regularly we are using those layers. Okay. Okay. So, I think all of you understand that my pain point is to identify the water level for a particular village for the purpose of planning, planning water conservation structures in that village. Okay. Any clarification you need, please ask me. Sir, good morning. This is from Spacing. Good morning. As we have checked the data which you have given by you, it is for 138 piezometers. And you would like us to interpolate this data for 1800 villages, right sir? No, no, no, not like that. So, as a pilot work, we have given one, our EY team asked for one district. That is one Krishna district that I have given. So, if you arrive for that district, that district may have roughly 800-900 villages. And you are saying 150 piezometers. So, you have to work on that Krishna district area and Krishna district. I am telling about the total state, but you please concentrate on the Krishna district first. Okay. So, you need this water levels for each and every village in Krishna district, right sir? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Simple interpolation is not at all give good results as we decide. Yeah. So, actually the data which we have checked, it is not, we can say that it is not equally distributed somewhere. The network of the piezometers is not equally distributed. So, somewhere there are missing. I mean, at one village there are piezometers, the other village there are no piezometers. So, maybe the interpolation, after doing interpolation based on the water levels, it may not be correct, as you say. That is the main pain point here. Yes. Otherwise, we are regularly using the IDW interpolation technique, buying this water level joining maps, etc. But the real, real pain point is we cannot assign, we cannot equally distribute those values across the villages, across the hydrogeological formations. Because there is only one topography, that is land, land surface. Second one is the aquifer. Aquifer geometry is very important here. So, that is underlined by which aquifer. It is alluvial aquifer or sandstone or granite or something else. So, based on that, the water levels behavior will vary from place to place, village to village. Okay, sir. So, based on the other factors, you want us to interpolate the water levels, isn't it, sir? If simple interpolation is required, any of our department team can do that one. Every day, we are doing that interpolation. We are doing IDW interpolation. But we are not getting desired results for that village. Desired results, okay. So, for that, actually, we also require the other details also, like we need the rainfall data and soil data. So, these data sets were not given. If that data set is with us, then we may go for accurate interpolation of the data. Okay, we will give rainfall. I think I have provided, otherwise also we will provide the rainfall. Aquifers are there, geomorphology is there. I will provide aquifers, rainfall also. Geology, geomorphology, aquifer data and surface water data is also not with us. You can get from the Google map or otherwise we will also provide for that. How many irrigation tanks are there? That data is required. That information also we can provide. Major and minor irrigation structures data, if it is available, kindly provide to us. And also, the land use, land cover data which you have provided, it is I think 2005 data. It's been again, 20 years back data, sir. How is it? I mean, it may not be, land use, land cover might have changed by this time, 20 years time. So, I think we need the latest data to assess it correctly, the groundwater levels. As of now, we are having that layer only. So, we will try to provide, if it is available, we can provide. And what about soil data, sir? Soil data and topography, digital elevation model, slope of the terrain, also all these factors, I think contribute to the groundwater levels. Yeah, yeah. Dam for Krishna district, 30 meters dam, it is available, no? It is freely available. Can I answer, Srinivas sir, can I answer? Yeah, Bindu ma'am, please. Yes. So, ma'am, you see many of these data sets which you are mentioning are freely available. So, when you are talking about dams, it is available. So, most of the parameters which you are asking for are freely available. So, when you are talking about dam, you can download dam from SRTM. When you are talking about slope, that is something which you can derive based on dam. So, most of the parameters which you are asking for are freely available. So, you should be able to get that data. Yeah, dam may be it is available, but soil data and geology is not open source. So, soil data also, there are open sources from where we can get soil data. So, there are sources like global soil data sets like FAO, ISRIC, etc., which you can download. You can make use of that data. Yes, ma'am. Actually, we have seen the data, but FAO data is not relevant over local data. Yeah, FAO is very close resolution. So, this is like, see, when we don't have any other information, we always need to look into the best available information that is possible. So, that way, you have got ISRIC soils. So, ISRIC soils are available at 250 meter. Yeah, yeah. So, that is very close resolution and globally the soil data is not very much relevant to our local data. So, this may be difficult if we use the data. Yes. So, ISRIC soils, you can give a try. See, if we don't have fine resolution data. And land use also, see, worse come worse, if we don't have the latest land use, we can do, you can download images, do a land use classification that can also be done. I'm just mentioning feasible options, ways in which it can be done. Yeah, ma'am. Actually, we are trying to interpolate it accurately so that if data sets were available, so that we can give the more accurate solution. That's the reason why we are asking. Thank you, sir. Thank you, ma'am. If you have any requirement, you please write on this WhatsApp group. Whatever we can provide, we can share with you all. So, otherwise, whatever is not available, you can download from the reliable and best source. Okay, sir. So, Srinivasa, one question. I mean, like, I mean, whatever you mentioned, like you have requested like pre-monsoon and post-monsoon data. But when it comes to the data updated, like it has only one specific data point. So, what should we refer that as, sir? Is it pre-monsoon or post-monsoon? We have provided water level data for pre- and post-monsoon period. I think it is for almost 10 years. Dilip, are you in line? Dilip? Sir. Are you in line? Sir, we provided entire data. Sir, not only pre-monsoon and post-month, we provided entire data, sir. Monthly data? Monthly. Sir, Srinivasa, if someone could actually from your team could explain the data set, that would be helpful for us for the procedure. I mean, we can see the files, but if someone could explain us like what data is it. So, it will be easier for us. One very important layer is, data is the point data of all 150 piezometers in Krishna district. That is for monthly data. Monthly data for a period of 10 years. First one. Second data set is aquifers layer. Principal aquifers of that district. Third one is geomorphology layer. And rainfall also provided, Dilip? In that rainfall is there? No, sir. Rainfall not provided, sir. Okay. Rainfall we will provide. Next. Only these three? Dilip? LULC, sir. LULC. Piezometer metadata only provided, sir. Water levels and metadata. Madam also telling that. GLG also there, sir. GLG also there. GLG, geomorphology, land use, LULC and water level data provided. And we will provide rainfall data also. LULC, madam is telling about, it is old data. So, if it is available, we can provide. Otherwise, you please download, madam. For our pilot area. Those are the data sets we have provided. Stratigraphic succession also provided, sir. Giving prioritization. They asked for stratification. They prioritization. Provided strata. Okay. Those are the data sets available with us. And we have shared whatever available with us. If any further data sets you require. You are free. You can. You're welcome. Please ask. For the anything more you required. So, if available, we can share immediately. Sir, one more thing is like the in the data set. Actually, we are little confused with the units, sir. Like pumping. Rate and all those things. Can we use? I mean, the rate of pumping was not mentioned in the units. So, if you can give us a clear picture of the data, which you have provided. So, that will be helpful for us to use. Our team will go through the data sets provided to you. And then units clearly. Okay. Anything else? Yeah. Anything else? Oh, yeah. This is from. Can we get the historical data from last couple of years? It is three to four years. Yeah. What? We provided water level data, historical water level data and metadata. Also, we provided in the same sheet. Oh, okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Hello, sir. We have one more doubt. How do the after interpolating? How we can provide the data to you in the form of a web application? So, first, please explain how do you want to proceed? What methodology are you going to adopt? Not today. You take time and go through the data and go through the use case and pain points. What I explained. And you need to come up with your methodology and process. So that the communication of end result is easy. You can communicate by any means. We'll discuss that part. Okay. Okay. He was also required on your results. What do you assign? So people will take care about that one along with your support. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Please go through this one. Anything required? You please mail or request in this WhatsApp group. Whatever data we can provide, we can provide. And whatever help or whatever knowledge sharing is required from our side. We're also ready to share with you. And we want your expertise in this project. Yes. Vijay Kumar. Vijay Kumar. Vijay Kumar. Hello. In line. All right. Singh here working in our office. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Good morning. Oh, oh, wait. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Sir, I have a question. What is the test data here? Like on the day of the demo, do we extrapolate the values or predict the values for all the villages in Krishna district? And is that the test data? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Is that the test data? This data means. So on the day of the demo, for which all villages do we have to infer the values, the ground net? Yeah. After your process and after getting outcomes, so we are asking for PLC process, so we will visit that village and we'll compare your output with the field data, we'll collect the data there and there itself, there and there itself in the field in agriculture farmers bore well, so we can compare the value and the value in the field in that village. Right. Yeah. But for which villages should we predict for all the villages in Krishna district? So there are, I think, uh, uh, 700, 800 villages that they randomly will select some villages. Okay. You do for the, you, you do exercise for the, all villages or people depart will take 10% of the villages, total villages. So do we have the village's information in one of the files given the data? Yeah. If it is not there, I can provide it today. I think it is there. If it is not there, I will provide today. Okay. Yeah. That would be helpful. Dilip, you also share the, Dilip. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. I will share the same file. You share the lithology, if any possible for that in and around that piezometer, one or two. Also rainfall data. The third one is, uh, uh, this, the village and, uh, Mandal layer. Okay, sir. Village Mandal district layer. Okay, sir. Okay. For Krishna district. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Anything else? Sir, on the day of evaluation, so you will be taking all the participants predictions and then post the comparison, uh, like, uh, that's how you're going to, uh, start list. Yeah. In our districts, our district team is there. Uh, field officer will be there. Uh, we'll, uh, give your, uh, share your data, the results to that field officer and, uh, that work to two or three field officers. Uh, they will take your data and, uh, uh, also, uh, they will compare your data with the village actual data. The bore wells are owned by the farmers in the district villages. So any place it is possible, uh, they will take the manual reading water level and they will compare your value with that value, those values. Got it, sir. Thank you. Sir, uh, uh, in that delivery, deliverables, which you have mentioned apart from the water levels, uh, we also need to identify the artificial recharge zones and the groundwater deficient zones also, sir. Okay. So first and foremost important one, this is identification of the village where, uh, where, uh, the, uh, what, what is the water level conditions in that village. So with that only you can plan for the next step will come into picture. Okay, sir. So at the time of PVC only this groundwater level is required, sir. First one, then based on the water table depth, you have to calculate the water requirement to recharge that aquifer to build the water level up to eight meters and, uh, in that village water, the other surface water bodies are there. And to, to provide, uh, supply water to this, uh, aquifer for recharge purpose. And also what is the rainfall pattern? What is the runoff available? Uh, what is the runoff already? We are replacing, uh, demand present existing demand and what are the, uh, existing, uh, water conservation structures and beyond that, uh, uh, the total availability minus, uh, total demand existing demand that will be the surplus water. So if a surplus water is there, we can, uh, plan the, uh, other, uh, different water conservation structures like check dams, pump ponds, percolation tanks, resource shafts, et cetera, uh, based on the field conditions. So this is required at the time of PVC, sir, or later we can do this? At the same time we'll do for one village, two villages, one or two villages. Water level for all villages, we have many villages and, uh, this, uh, water conservation activities for few villages. Okay. Okay, sir. Uh, my, my, my request is, uh, please go through the data sets and, uh, please think about, uh, uh, discussion. I think I'm clearly explained you, uh, my, uh, pain points also explained. Uh, so please go through all of this and if you call us at any time, we are ready to coordinate with you. Yeah. Okay, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Sir, is there any deadline for the POC? Uh, that's my last question. Uh, please react. The exact date will be, um, announced in the group. So, um, you will be getting max, uh, seven to 10 days to prepare your setup, like prototype. So we will, uh, uh, given, uh, end date within one or two days. Yeah. So Srinath, like, uh, just to be clear, like, I mean, after this seven or 10 days, like all the six participants team are supposed to present the demo, right? Yes. Okay. All right. Yeah. Thanks. Srinath, like, I mean, if there is no, uh, pushes more from the participants, I think, like, I mean, we can wind up the session. Participants, like, even if you have any queries, please raise, or as like, even we can, uh, uh, wind up the session. Yes. No questions. As of now, as of now, we are clear about the requirements. Thank you. Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you, uh, our team. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, Srinath. Thank you. Thank you.  Thank you. Thank you. Welcome to the 2020 NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NSF NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC NRC
